README.md, before:

SHEDS Flow Photo Explorer API
=============================

## Configuration

Use `.env` files specifying environment (`.env.development`, `.env.production`) and local (`.env.local`) via [`dotenv-flow`](npmjs.com/package/dotenv-flow). Local `.env` files are not tracked in the repo.

Required variables

```bash
# api server port (local development only)
PORT

# aws region
REGION

# bucket name for storing data and images
BUCKET

# database connection secret
DB_SECRETS_NAME
```

## Database

The database schema is managed using [`knex` migrations and seeds]() .

### Migrations

Database migrations (`db/migrations`) keep the schema synchronized across environments.

```sh
export NODE_ENV=development # set NODE_ENV prior to running migrations (important!)
knex migrate:latest
knex migrate:rollback
knex migrate:up
knex migrate:down
knex migrate:make name_in_snake_case
```

### Seeds

Database seeds (`db/seeds/development`) populate the database with initial data (currently only used for development).

```sh
# set NODE_ENV prior to running migrations (important!)
export NODE_ENV=development
knex seed:run
```

Example datasets can be generated for existing (production) stations using the `r/scripts/export-dev-station.R` script. The output from that script can be place in the `db/seeds/development/data/users/<userId>/stations` folder to add a station and its processed datasets and imagesets to an existing user. Be sure to sync the `<station code>/storage` folder to the S3 storage bucket for development.

```sh
cd db/seeds/development/data/users/<userId>/stations/<station code>
aws s3 sync storage s3://<bucket name>/ --exclude "*" --include "imagesets/*" --include "datasets/*"
```

## API

Run development server via `nodemon`.

```bash
cd api
npm start
```

## Command Line Interface (CLI)

The `cli.js` file defines a CLI for managing the database.

To make it globally available:

```sh
npm link
```

Be sure to set the `NODE_ENV` environmental variable.

```sh
export NODE_ENV=development
```

Now access the CLI through the `fpe` program.

```sh
fpe help
fpe stations list
```

Or for brief usage, set the `NODE_ENV` inline:

```sh
NODE_ENV=development fpe stations list
```

### CLI Quickstart

Create a station.

```
$ fpe stations create -u 10b8ece7... -n "My Station" -l 42.123 -g -72.394
ID | USER_ID | NAME       | DESCRIPTION | LATITUDE | LONGITUDE
2  | 1       | My Station |             | 42.123   | -72.394
```

Create an image set for new station, and upload image files from specified folder.

```
$ fpe imagesets create cli/test/images -s 2
folder listed (n files=10)
configuration validated
processing image PICT0001.JPG (1/10)
processing image PICT0002.JPG (2/10)
processing image PICT0003.JPG (3/10)
processing image PICT0004.JPG (4/10)
processing image PICT0005.JPG (5/10)
processing image PICT0006.JPG (6/10)
processing image PICT0007.JPG (7/10)
processing image PICT0008.JPG (8/10)
processing image PICT0009.JPG (9/10)
processing image PICT0010.JPG (10/10)
images processed (n images=10)
imageset saved to db (id=11)
```

Create dataset and upload specified file.

```
$ fpe datasets create -s 1 -t datetime -v "flow_cfs"="FLOW_CFS" -v "stage_ft"="STAGE_FT" cli/test/dataset.csv
dataset parsed (n rows=6)
configuration validated
series generated (n series=2)
dataset saved to db (id=53)
```

## AWS CLI

To manage files in S3 using the aws cli.

```bash
export BUCKET=<bucket name>

# list all files
aws s3 ls s3://${BUCKET}/ --recursive

# list dataset files
aws s3 ls s3://${BUCKET}/datasets/ --recursive

# list imageset uuids (no files)
aws s3 ls s3://${BUCKET}/imagesets/

# delete all image files for imageset uuid
aws s3 rm s3://${BUCKET}/ --recursive --exclude "*" --include "imagesets/<uuid>/*"

# delete all csv files for dataset uuid
aws s3 rm s3://${BUCKET}/ --recursive --exclude "*" --include "datasets/<uuid>/*"
```

## References

- [AWS Security Best Practices Part 2 (Uploading)](https://hedgehoglab.com/blog/aws-s3-security-best-practices-part-2)
- [robmclarty/knex-express-project-sample](https://github.com/robmclarty/knex-express-project-sample): Express + Knex template
- [Fodark/express-knex-objection](https://github.com/Fodark/express-knex-objection/blob/master/api/users.js): Express + Knex + Objection template
- [Lambda payload size workaround](https://seancoates.com/blogs/lambda-payload-size-workaround): how to deal with lambda payload limits (6 MB)

Commit message:

chore: change license to CC0

README.md, after:

USGS Flow Photo Explorer
=========================

## Configuration

Use `.env` files specifying environment (`.env.development`, `.env.production`) and local (`.env.local`) via [`dotenv-flow`](npmjs.com/package/dotenv-flow). Local `.env` files are not tracked in the repo.

Required variables

```bash
# api server port (local development only)
PORT

# aws region
REGION

# bucket name for storing data and images
BUCKET

# database connection secret
DB_SECRETS_NAME
```

## Database

The database schema is managed using [`knex` migrations and seeds]() .

### Migrations

Database migrations (`db/migrations`) keep the schema synchronized across environments.

```sh
export NODE_ENV=development # set NODE_ENV prior to running migrations (important!)
knex migrate:latest
knex migrate:rollback
knex migrate:up
knex migrate:down
knex migrate:make name_in_snake_case
```

### Seeds

Database seeds (`db/seeds/development`) populate the database with initial data (currently only used for development).

```sh
# set NODE_ENV prior to running migrations (important!)
export NODE_ENV=development
knex seed:run
```

Example datasets can be generated for existing (production) stations using the `r/scripts/export-dev-station.R` script. The output from that script can be place in the `db/seeds/development/data/users/<userId>/stations` folder to add a station and its processed datasets and imagesets to an existing user. Be sure to sync the `<station code>/storage` folder to the S3 storage bucket for development.

```sh
cd db/seeds/development/data/users/<userId>/stations/<station code>
aws s3 sync storage s3://<bucket name>/ --exclude "*" --include "imagesets/*" --include "datasets/*"
```

## API

Run development server via `nodemon`.

```bash
cd api
npm start
```

## Command Line Interface (CLI)

The `cli.js` file defines a CLI for managing the database.

To make it globally available:

```sh
npm link
```

Be sure to set the `NODE_ENV` environmental variable.

```sh
export NODE_ENV=development
```

Now access the CLI through the `fpe` program.

```sh
fpe help
fpe stations list
```

Or for brief usage, set the `NODE_ENV` inline:

```sh
NODE_ENV=development fpe stations list
```

### CLI Quickstart

Create a station.

```
$ fpe stations create -u 10b8ece7... -n "My Station" -l 42.123 -g -72.394
ID | USER_ID | NAME       | DESCRIPTION | LATITUDE | LONGITUDE
2  | 1       | My Station |             | 42.123   | -72.394
```

Create an image set for new station, and upload image files from specified folder.

```
$ fpe imagesets create cli/test/images -s 2
folder listed (n files=10)
configuration validated
processing image PICT0001.JPG (1/10)
processing image PICT0002.JPG (2/10)
processing image PICT0003.JPG (3/10)
processing image PICT0004.JPG (4/10)
processing image PICT0005.JPG (5/10)
processing image PICT0006.JPG (6/10)
processing image PICT0007.JPG (7/10)
processing image PICT0008.JPG (8/10)
processing image PICT0009.JPG (9/10)
processing image PICT0010.JPG (10/10)
images processed (n images=10)
imageset saved to db (id=11)
```

Create dataset and upload specified file.

```
$ fpe datasets create -s 1 -t datetime -v "flow_cfs"="FLOW_CFS" -v "stage_ft"="STAGE_FT" cli/test/dataset.csv
dataset parsed (n rows=6)
configuration validated
series generated (n series=2)
dataset saved to db (id=53)
```

## AWS CLI

To manage files in S3 using the aws cli.

```bash
export BUCKET=<bucket name>

# list all files
aws s3 ls s3://${BUCKET}/ --recursive

# list dataset files
aws s3 ls s3://${BUCKET}/datasets/ --recursive

# list imageset uuids (no files)
aws s3 ls s3://${BUCKET}/imagesets/

# delete all image files for imageset uuid
aws s3 rm s3://${BUCKET}/ --recursive --exclude "*" --include "imagesets/<uuid>/*"

# delete all csv files for dataset uuid
aws s3 rm s3://${BUCKET}/ --recursive --exclude "*" --include "datasets/<uuid>/*"
```

## References

- [AWS Security Best Practices Part 2 (Uploading)](https://hedgehoglab.com/blog/aws-s3-security-best-practices-part-2)
- [robmclarty/knex-express-project-sample](https://github.com/robmclarty/knex-express-project-sample): Express + Knex template
- [Fodark/express-knex-objection](https://github.com/Fodark/express-knex-objection/blob/master/api/users.js): Express + Knex + Objection template
- [Lambda payload size workaround](https://seancoates.com/blogs/lambda-payload-size-workaround): how to deal with lambda payload limits (6 MB)

## License

The code in this repository is released to the public domain under the [CC0 1.0 Universal license](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/). See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
